the animal experience experiments were
done to look at the problem of some of
them are done for looking at field
alcohol syndrome and models of field
alcohol syndrome in animals and some of
that data began to show that some of the
commonly used anesthetic agents that
have some overlap in their function with
it or their brain activity with alcohol
tended to show that there was some
injury to the developing brain and by
the developing brain I mean the brain as
the brain matures in very young children
there are parts of the their brain cells
that are normally what we call pruned
they die off that's a normal part of
brain development in the in the case of
these animal studies they tended to show
that exposure to these types of
anesthetic agents or other drugs
increase the amount of brain cell loss
and that excessive brain cell loss
translated into abnormalities in
learning or deficits in learning in
animals so what we did is we look to see
for the first time if the same thing
could be seen in children exposed to
anesthetic agents we were in the very
fortunate position here at Mayo to have
both the Rochester epidemiology project
that carefully collates all of the
medical records with in Olmsted County
and preserves those for later study and
the school database on learning
disabilities for all children
about Chester public and private schools
and have the ability to use those those
two databases to try and answer this
question the problem is that anyone who
underwent an anaesthetic also had
surgery and it is unclear whether it is
the anesthetic the physiological stress
of surgery or perhaps the need to have
surgery so if you were having two or
more operations that and suggest that
probably you were in some way sick now
it's possible that those two operations
were ear tubes once and then thompson's
and adenoids the second time and other
than so recurrent in ear infections and
sore throats may be a very he'll
otherwise healthy kid on the other hand
the
possibly even a kid who's just having
adenoids out is maybe has sleep
disordered breathing and isn't sleeping
well at night and so it doesn't perform
up to expectations during the day so
it's it's hard to know what because of
the learning disability is so we can't
say that it's the anesthetic per se that
caused it we are trying to follow it or
we are not trying to do we are doing a
follow-up study right now where we are
working at trying to match each of the
kids who had an anaesthetic with a kid -
who has similar medical problems that
did not get an anaesthetic and see if we
can tease that out parents and their
physicians need to balance some of the
kinds of normal decisions that we all go
through when we decide to have surgery
for one of our children what we want to
be careful and not do is I think a way
to look at this is we want to be careful
about unintended consequence for example
if a child one of the more frequent
procedures that children undergo is
tubes in their ears if we were to delay
placing tubes in children's ears they
may have hearing problems and because
they have hearing problems they may have
language delay and because they have
language delay they may have learning
disability so we want to be careful
about the unintended consequences of
delaying surgeries that we would have
done otherwise I would emphasize again
that it's
it's too early for us to make to make
any recommendations about changing the
usual practice that that that has served
children well for a very long time Food
and Drug Administration is very much
aware of this problem and they have been
very proactive in in trying to to gather
information as quickly as can be
gathered
but as thoughtfully as well so we so we
make sure that the answers we get are
well-constructed well-thought-out
answers that don't create undue fear
among parents and families